---
title: bs-platform release 7.1.0
---

`bs-platform@7.1.0` is a major release, you can try it with `npm i -g bs-platform`!
(if you have permission issues, try `sudo npm i --unsafe-perm -g bs-platform`)

It was called 7.0.2 but bumped into 7.1.0 due to a soundness fix (a breaking change) as below:

Previously, the empty array `[||]` is polymorphic, this happens to be true, since in native the array is not resizable, so that user cannot do anything with it. But in JS, we introduced a binding `push` which can change the size of an array dynamically. In this case, empty array cannot be polymorphic any more.

Removing `push` is possible but it makes array in JS context less useful. To fix this issue while keeping `push`, we make `[||]` weakly typed so that its type inference is deferred until the first time it is used. If it is never used across the module, it has to be annotated with a concrete type, otherwise, the type checker will complain.

Several highlighted features are listed as below:

## Raw JavaScript parsing/checking

BuckleScript allows user to embed raw JavaScript code as an escape hatch, it used to treat such piece code as a black box.

In this release we vendor a JavaScript parser (thanks to [flowtype](https://github.com/facebook/flow)) for syntax checking and simple semantics analysis over `raw`, it is on-going work, but is already useful now.

First, we report syntax errors properly for `raw` now.

Second, for simple semantics analysis we can tell whether the code inside raw is a function or not and the arity of raw function:

```ocaml
let f = [%raw "function(x){return x}"]
```
```reason
let f = [%raw "function(x){return x}"];
```

Now we know `f` is a function declaration with no side effect, it can be removed by the dead code analyser if not used. We also know its arity so that when it's called we know whether it's fully applied or not.

Because of such info can be derived from `raw` directly, the special `raw` form we introduced as below is no longer needed:

```ocaml
let f = fun%raw x -> {|x|}
```
```reason
let f = [%raw x => {|x|}];
```
To make FFI simpler, the special form will be discouraged.

We also employ such knowledge on JS literals, regex checking, we will exploit more in this direction.

## unboxed types 

One major feature introduced in this release is **unboxed types** which is blogged [here](https://bucklescript.github.io/blog/2019/12/20/release-7-02).


## uniform warning system

Previously warnings are reported in two ways:
the OCaml compiler style : `-w +10` ;
ad-hoc warnings introduced by flags `-bs-warn-unimplemented-external`.

This unneeded complexity is due to the fact OCaml's own warning system can only handle warnings in the type checking pass so that warnings in parsing, code generation are not handled properly.

In this release, we make such integration more reliable so that warnings after parsing are handled in the same way, for example, the warning attribute below can also turn off  BuckleScript warnings now.

```reason
[@warning "-101"]; // file-level config
```

Based on such effort, we move all BuckleScript warnings into OCaml style warnings to reduce user level complexity.

The introduced warnings are listed here (via `bsc -warn-help`):

```
101 BuckleScript warning: Unused bs attributes
102 BuckleScript warning: polymorphic comparison introduced (maybe unsafe)
103 BuckleScript warning: about fragile FFI definitions
104 BuckleScript warning: bs.deriving warning with customized message 
105 BuckleScript warning: the external name is inferred from val name is unsafe from refactoring when changing value name
106 BuckleScript warning: Unimplemented primitive used:
107 BuckleScript warning: Integer literal exceeds the range of representable integers of type int
108 BuckleScript warning: Uninterpreted delimiters (for unicode)
```

We also recommend users to turn on warnerror and only disable warnings for some specific files.

## Reason parser upgrade

In this release, we upgrade `refmt`(the reason parser) to 3.6.0, a notable feature is that the external name can be omitted now:

```
[@bs.obj]
external f : (~x:int)=>_; 
Js.log(f(~x=2));
```
It produce such JS code as below:
```js
console.log({
      x: 2
    });

```

A full list of changes are available here: https://github.com/BuckleScript/bucklescript/blob/master/Changes.md#702
