---
title: Announcing bs-platform  7.2
---

Today we are proud to release `bs-platform 7.2`!

For those unfamiliar with bs-platform, it is the platform for compiling [ReasonML](https://reasonml.github.io/) and [OCaml](https://ocaml.org/) to fast and readable JavaScript.

You can try it with `npm i bs-platform`!

This is a major release with some highlighted features as below:

## In memory loading stdlib

Since this release, the binary artifacts generated by the stdlib are loaded from memory instead of an external file systems, which means much faster compilation and installation.

Previously we recommended installing `bs-platform` globally to save on installation time.

However, with this release the installation is so fast that  we recommend installing it locally instead - per project - instead, as there's no additional cost, and it provides better isolation. You can use it with a nice tool called [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx).

The installation is also compatible with `--ignore-scripts` for major platforms, it provides more stability with [yarn](https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn)


## let %private

In OCaml's module system, everything is public by default, the only way to hide some values is by providing a separate signature to list public fields and their types:

```reasonml
module A : { let b : int} = {
    let a = 3 ;
    let b = 4 ; 
}
```
`let` `%private` gives you an option to mark private fields directly

```reasonml
module A  = {
    let%private a  = 3;
    let b  = 4;
}
```

`let%private` also applies to file level modules, so in some cases, user does not need to provide a separate interface file just to hide some particular values.

Note interface file is still recommended as good practice since it gives you better separate compilation and interface file is good for documentation, `let%private` is useful in such scenarios:

- Code generators. Some code generators want to hide some values but it is sometimes very hard or time consuming for code generators to synthesize the types for public fields.

- Quick prototyping. During prototyping, we still want to hide some values, but the interface file is not stable yet, `let%private` provide you such convenience.


## Int64 performance optimization

Per some users' feedback that some operations in Int64 are the bottleneck of their code path, in particular `Int64.to_string`.

After some hard work, without changing the underlying representation, our `Int64.to_string` is even faster than `bigint` for common input:

A micro-benchmark is as below:
```
running on 7.1
Int64.to_string: 367.788ms # super positive number 
Int64.to_string: 140.451ms # median number
Int64.to_string: 375.471ms # super negative number

bigint
Int64.to_string: 25.151ms
Int64.to_string: 12.278ms
Int64.to_string: 21.011ms

latest
Int64.to_string: 43.228ms
Int64.to_string: 5.764ms
Int64.to_string: 43.270ms
```

We also apply such optimizations to other Int64 operations. Note Int64 is implemented in OCaml itself without any raw JavaScript, this is a strong use case which supports that our optimizing compiler not only provide expressivity and type safe guarantee but also empowers users to write maintainable efficient code.

## File level compilation flags

In this release, we also provide a handy flag to allow user override some configurations in file level.

```reasonml
[@bs.config {flags: [|"-w", "a", "-bs-no-bin-annot"|]}]; // toplevel attributes
```

A full list of changes is available here: https://github.com/BuckleScript/bucklescript/blob/master/Changes.md#72
